{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab720{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fmodern Courier New;}{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\plain\f2\fs20 A NIGHT IN ELSINORE
\par 
\par                         a parody of William Shakespeare's       
\par                         HAMLET
\par                         committed by Richard Nathan
\par                          (Richard-Nathan@worldnet.att.net)
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab http://www.dramex.org/plays/scripts/elsinore.txt
\par ACT I
\par 
\par Scene I
\par 
\par 
\par Scene I takes place on a platform in front of 
\par Elsinore Castle.  FRANCISCO is on duty.  Enter 
\par BERNARDO.
\par 
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Who's there?
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Nay, answer me.  Stand and unfold 
\par yourself.
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Long live the King!
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Bernardo?
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par I am he.
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par You come most carefully upon your 
\par hour.
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par 'Tis now struck twelve.
\par 
\par 
\par Off stage, there is the sound of someone 
\par approaching.
\par 
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Who is there?  Stand ho!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter HORATIO, who is dressed rather shabbily and 
\par who speaks with an unusual Italian accent.  He is 
\par more an antique Roman than a Dane.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That's right!  You guessed it.
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par What's right?  Guessed what?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You said, "Stand Ho!"  That's me!  
\par Ho!
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Ho!  Ho who?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Gezundheit!
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Why, 'tis good Horatio!  How dost 
\par thou, Horatio?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I don't do much dusting anymore.  
\par I'm a guard now.  I guard the 
\par castle gate, and I do a pretty good 
\par job too.
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Really?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure.  It's still there.
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Has the apparition appeared again 
\par tonight?
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par I have seen nothing.
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Horatio, do you know ought of the 
\par Ghost?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Well, I ought to.  Hey, that's some 
\par funny joke, eh?
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Come, come, Horatio.  Do you know 
\par anything of ghosts?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure, I knew an old ghost once.  
\par But that was a long, long time ago.  
\par He's probably dead by now.
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Look!  It comes again!  The ghost 
\par of our late King Hamlet!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter the GHOST, a bright-eyed imp who happens to 
\par be mute.
\par 
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par There is the apparition!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I don't believe it.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost and Horatio joyously embrace.
\par 
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Stay illusion!  If thou hast any 
\par sound or use of voice, speak to me!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost honks a horn.
\par 
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Question it, Horatio.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, Ghost, how ya doing?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost does a melodramatic death scene.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You're dead, huh?  Gee, that's too 
\par bad.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost sits up and nods his head "yes."
\par 
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Ask him about the war!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What war?
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Ask him if we should go to war with 
\par young Fortinbras!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, Ghost, should we go to war 
\par with Fortinbras?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes his head "no."  He hold up ten 
\par fingers, and then three fingers.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No.  He says Fortinbras is too 
\par many.  He thinks we should go to 
\par war with thirteen-bras.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost slaps his knee and goes into fits of 
\par silent laughter.
\par 
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par No, no!  You remember, young 
\par Fortinbras is the son of old 
\par Fortinbras, who was King of Norway, 
\par until our late King Hamlet killed 
\par him and took most of the Norwegian 
\par lands.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost mocks Francisco's overly-serious manner, 
\par and makes faces at him.  Suddenly he looks 
\par offstage and panics.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What's the matter?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost starts to run offstage, but Horatio 
\par blocks his way.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Where you going?  What're you 
\par doing?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost whistles and points to the horizon.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What do you mean?  I don't get it.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost decides to explain in pantomime.  The 
\par Ghost points down.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Down?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost whistles and nods enthusiastically.  
\par Then the Ghost mimes picking up something and 
\par raising it.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What?  Down is up?  You're crazy!  
\par How can down be up?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes his head "no."  He holds out a 
\par hand to signal that he wants to start again.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Okay.  We start again.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost mimes putting a cigar into his mouth, 
\par and then loping across the stage while raising and 
\par lowering his eyebrows.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Wait a minute!  I think I seen that 
\par guy before.  Let me think ...  I 
\par know!  That's the man who comes to 
\par fix the sink!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes his head "no."
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No?  Who is it?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost mimes holding a baby in his arms, acting 
\par like a father.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par It's your son?  It's Prince Hamlet?  
\par The one you named after yourself?  
\par Funny, he looks just like the man 
\par who comes to fix the sink.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost threatens to hit Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par OK.  Hamlet.   He's your son.  Your 
\par son!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost mimes proudly holding the baby in his 
\par arms.  Then he mimes lifting the baby up.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par He's going up?  Hamlet's going up?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes his head "no," and then holds out 
\par his hand to signal that he wants to try again.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par OK.  We try again.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost again mimes Hamlet loping across the 
\par stage.  Then, as Hamlet, he starts silently 
\par weeping and crying.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hamlet.  He's sad.  He's crying.  
\par Why's he crying?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost points to himself and does his death 
\par scene again.  Then he goes back to Hamlet crying, 
\par and pointing to where he died.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par He cries because you're dead.  He's 
\par in mourning.
\par 
\par 
\par As soon as Horatio says, "mourning," the Ghost 
\par starts joyfully jumping up and down and nodding 
\par "yes."
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That's it!!!  Mourning!  It's 
\par morning ... 
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost again mimes lifting the baby.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par . . .  and something's going up.  
\par The sun is coming up!  It's 
\par morning, dawn, and the sun is 
\par coming up, so you've got to leave 
\par now.  OK, I understand.  Good-bye, 
\par Ghost.  I'll be seeing you.  Good-
\par bye.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost exits, waving good-bye and blowing 
\par kisses.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, he's a nice ghost.
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par Come.  Let us impart what we have 
\par seen tonight to young Prince 
\par Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II takes place in a room in Elsinore Castle.  
\par Flourish.  Enter the KING, the QUEEN, HAMLET (who 
\par has his back to the audience), POLONIUS, LAERTES, 
\par and OPHELIA.  The King is a slightly overweight 
\par man with a beard and a middle-European accent.  
\par His name is Claudius.  Gertrude, the Queen, is a 
\par stately dowager-type.  Polonius is a foolish old 
\par man.  Ophelia is an attractive blonde who is very 
\par clever and very ambitious.   Laertes is a young 
\par man, excitable, but not very bright.  In the 
\par original production of this play, he was played in 
\par a style resembling Daffy Duck (including the 
\par lisp), and it worked.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Though yet of Hamlet our dear 
\par brother's death the memory be 
\par green, and it befitted us to bear 
\par our hearts in grief, and our whole 
\par kingdom to be contracted in one 
\par brow of woe, it's time we faced the 
\par fact the old king's dead, and I 
\par must run the kingdom.  I thank you 
\par all for your condolences on the 
\par death of my brother, the late King, 
\par as I thank you for your good wishes 
\par on my marriage to his widow, the 
\par Queen.  Now then, on to our royal 
\par business.  Young Fortinbras has 
\par demanded that we surrender the 
\par lands lost by his father.  I have 
\par sent word to the aged king of 
\par Norway, ordering him to bring young 
\par Fortinbras into line!  Not one 
\par patch of land shall we give up!  
\par 
\par 
\par The King looks around the room.  Everyone except 
\par Hamlet looks pleased.  The King looks at Laertes.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Now, good Laertes, did you have 
\par something you wished to ask of me?
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Yes, Sire, your leave and favor to 
\par return to France.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Ahh, France, eh?  I'm told that 
\par France is a lovely country, and I 
\par hear they make most excellent wines 
\par there.  Go.  Enjoy yourself.  And 
\par be sure to send some postcards.  
\par Now, my nephew Hamlet, my son, how 
\par is it the clouds still hang on you?
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet turns to face the audience, and we see his 
\par face for the first time.  Hamlet has a big, black 
\par mustache that looks as if it might have been 
\par painted on, and he smokes a cigar. 
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Nay, I am too much in the sun!  Get 
\par it? That's a joke.  My real father 
\par just died, and now I've got you for 
\par a father, so I'm too much in the 
\par sun!  Boy, that Shakespeare sure 
\par could write.  I'd like to see 
\par Francis Bacon pull off a joke like 
\par that.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hmmmmm.  Come, Hamlet, my son, how 
\par is it the clouds still hang on you?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I don't know.  Maybe it's because 
\par you're reigning.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Good Hamlet, I know full well the 
\par love you bore your father.  But 
\par cast thy nighted color off!  If he 
\par were here today, do you think your 
\par father would want us to mourn on 
\par and on, wearing the same customary 
\par suit of solemn black, day in and 
\par day out?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, he'd probably ask you to 
\par change your socks.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Hamlet, . . .
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par In fact, that's still a pretty good 
\par idea.  And while you're at it, 
\par change your husband.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Hamlet, I loved your dear, departed 
\par father.  No woman could have loved 
\par him more.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Of course not!  No other dame ever 
\par had a chance, not with you watching 
\par him like a hawk.  And a fat lot of 
\par good it did him,  ... poor old Dad.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hamlet, it's unfortunate that your 
\par father died, but fathers have a way 
\par of doing that.  My father died, and 
\par his father died before him, and his 
\par father died...
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Yeah, but uncles go on forever.  
\par Don't you?
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hamlet, why don't you try to think 
\par of me as your father?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par OK, bury yourself six feet 
\par underground, and I'll give it a 
\par shot.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Gertrude, we must do something 
\par about this son of yours.
\par 
\par Exeunt all but Hamlet.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh that this too, too solid flesh 
\par would melt, or at least that they 
\par would turn up the heat a little.  
\par To think that it should come to 
\par this!  My father but two months 
\par dead, and my mother married to this 
\par satyr.  I recall the day they wed.  
\par It was a satyr-day.  Heaven and 
\par Earth, must I remember?  My mother 
\par has married my uncle, and turned me 
\par into my own cousin.  Frailty, thy 
\par name is woman.  And woman, thy name 
\par is Frailty.  My name is Hamlet, and 
\par I'm ashamed to meet the both of 
\par you.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Horatio, Francisco and Bernardo.  Horatio 
\par consults with his friends.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, is that him?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Horatio, -- or I do forget myself!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Well, I don't know.  Who do you 
\par think you are?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'm Hamlet, Prince of Denmark.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Then you don't forget yourself... 
\par not unless you're the man who comes 
\par to fix the sink.  Then you got a 
\par problem.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par This can't be anyone but Horatio.  
\par Don't you remember me?  We went to 
\par school together!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure, I know you!  You're Hamlet!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par And you're Horatio!  But I thought 
\par you were still going to school in 
\par Wittenberg.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No, I left there a long time ago.  
\par I was too smart for them.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh really?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Yeah.  All the professors said 
\par they'd never be able to teach me 
\par anything.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Horatio, something is rotten in the 
\par state of Denmark, and I think it's 
\par you.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That reminds me.  I think I saw 
\par your father's ghost last night!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What?  Are you sure it was him?  
\par Did you speak to him?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par We spoke.  But he wouldn't answer.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That sounds like Dad, all right.  
\par Listen, boys, this is something I'm 
\par going to have to see for myself.  
\par Let's meet at the top of the castle 
\par tonight.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene III
\par 
\par 
\par Scene III takes place in a room in Polonius' 
\par house.  Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par My necessaries are embarked.  
\par Farewell.  And sister, do be wary 
\par of the affections of Prince Hamlet.  
\par Perhaps he does love you now, but 
\par he is subject to his birth, and 
\par therefore he must choose a royal 
\par bride.
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Laertes, don't be such an ass!  Use 
\par your brain for once!  Do you think 
\par for one minute that Claudius is 
\par going to let Hamlet marry a 
\par princess?
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Huh?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Listen!  Hamlet has a better claim 
\par to the throne than his uncle 
\par Claudius does, right?  If Hamlet 
\par marries into another royal family, 
\par he'll gain powerful allies to help 
\par him win the crown.  You think 
\par Claudius wants that?  All I have to 
\par do is convince the King that 
\par Hamlet's been toying with my 
\par affections, and I guarantee you 
\par we'll be married before Hamlet 
\par knows what's hit him.  Then I'll 
\par figure out some way to get rid of 
\par Claudius, and I'll be Queen of 
\par Denmark!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Sister, you're brilliant!  But 
\par look, here comes our father!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Yet here, Laertes?  My blessings 
\par with thee!  And take these few 
\par precepts in thy memory:  Be thou 
\par familiar, but by no means vulgar.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What's he gonna do in France if he 
\par can't be vulgar?  How's he gonna 
\par fit in?
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Horatio, you're not supposed to be 
\par here, are you?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No, but I got two more hours before 
\par I'm supposed to go to a secret 
\par meeting with Hamlet at the top of 
\par the castle, so I got lots of time 
\par to kill.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I was just giving some advice to my 
\par son.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That's OK.  I'll add vice too.  I 
\par got lots of vice.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Very well.  Laertes, neither a 
\par borrower nor a lender be . . .
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That's a good idea.  But you know 
\par what?  You're too late.  Laertes 
\par loaned me ten gold kroner this 
\par morning.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Then give it back to him!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I can't.  Right after he gave me 
\par the money, I put it down, and then 
\par I lost it.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par You put it down and lost it???
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Yeah, I put it down on a horse.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par This is terrible.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Yeah, now your son, he's a lender, 
\par and what are we gonna do?  Hey, I 
\par got a great idea!  You loan me ten 
\par gold kroner, and then I'll pay 
\par Laertes back, and then he won't be 
\par a lender anymore.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par But if I lend you the money, then 
\par I'll be a lender, and you'll still 
\par be a borrower.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par OK, I got a better idea.  You don't 
\par be a lender, I don't be a borrower.  
\par You just give me the money.  How's 
\par that?
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I don't know about this.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You want your son to stay a lender 
\par all his life?
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius reaches into his money bag and takes out 
\par a gold coin.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par But all I've got is this twenty-
\par kroner piece.  Have you got change 
\par for that?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No, but I'll take it, just the 
\par same.
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio pockets the twenty-kroner piece.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par At least you can now pay back to 
\par Laertes the ten kroner you owe him.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Laertes, you got change for twenty 
\par kroner?
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par No, I'm afraid not.
\par 
\par Horatio turns to Polonius.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Now we got another problem.  I 
\par can't give this coin to him.  If I 
\par give him the coin, he'll owe me 
\par money.  If he owes me money, then 
\par he'll be a borrower.  He can't be a 
\par borrower if you just told him not 
\par to be a borrower!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par But...
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, I just got another great idea.  
\par Laertes, why don't you just say you 
\par gave me the ten gold kroner?  Then 
\par you won't be a lender!  You won't 
\par be a borrower!  You'll just be a 
\par nice guy, like your father!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Sounds okay to me.
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia, the only really smart one in the family, 
\par is furious with Horatio.  She scolds him, while 
\par Polonius and Laertes try to figure out what's been 
\par going on.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Horatio, you're nothing but a 
\par cheap, conniving crook!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Yeah, that's me.
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par How can you be so dishonest?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par One time I tried to be honest, but 
\par then I said to myself, "Horatio, to 
\par thine own self be true."  So if 
\par mine own self is a crook, that's 
\par what I gotta do.  Good-bye!
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio walks out with his twenty-kroner piece.  
\par Ophelia glares at him.  Laertes and Polonius are 
\par still trying to puzzle out what happened to their 
\par money.  Exeunt Ophelia, Laertes and Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene IV
\par 
\par 
\par Scene IV takes place back on the platform in front 
\par of Elsinore Castle, where Scene I took place.  
\par Enter Hamlet, Horatio, Bernardo and Francisco.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par The air bites shrewdly; it is very 
\par cold.  Say, are you fellows sure 
\par this is where dear old Dad is going 
\par to show up?
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par The ghost has appeared at this very 
\par spot three nights past, my lord, 
\par then vanished before the sun came 
\par up.
\par 
\par 
\par We hear the distant pounding of a kettledrum, and 
\par a flourish of trumpets.
\par 
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par What does this mean, my lord?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's the King.  He has the 
\par musicians play while he drinks.  He 
\par doesn't like to drink alone, so he 
\par has them play eight to the bar.  
\par You see, the King likes to take a 
\par drink before he goes to bed at 
\par night.  Then he likes to take a 
\par drink when he's in bed, especially 
\par if the Queen is still awake.  Then 
\par the Queen throws him out of bed, so 
\par he has to take another drink.  Then 
\par he's ready to throw the Queen out 
\par of bed, which calls for another 
\par drink.  Every time he takes a 
\par drink, he has the musicians bang 
\par the kettledrum.  As soon as the 
\par King is as tight as the drum, he 
\par knows it's time to fall asleep. 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, that sounds like a pretty good 
\par job.  You think I could be a king?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, would you be willing to marry 
\par your brother's wife?  Do you think 
\par you could do that?
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio thinks this over.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I don't know.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, come on.  Do you want to be 
\par king, or don't you?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par If I marry the wife, do I get his 
\par mistress too?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's not strictly required.  It's 
\par not really part of the job.  But 
\par I'm sure we could work something 
\par out.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Is she pretty?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par The wife or the mistress?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Yes!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You'll have to take that up with 
\par your brother.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, I just remembered!  I haven't 
\par got a brother!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Then you'll have to take that up 
\par with your parents.  You do have 
\par parents, don't you?  Otherwise, 
\par you'll just have to take it up with 
\par your grandparents.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I've got a great idea!  Why don't I 
\par just take your wife?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par My wife?  I'm not even married!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That's all right.  I can wait.
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Look my lord, it comes!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost enters, and is overjoyed to see Hamlet.  
\par The Ghost claps his hands and runs to embrace his 
\par son.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Dad!
\par 
\par 
\par As the Ghost embraces Hamlet, the Ghost sticks his 
\par hands into the pockets of Hamlet's coat, pulls out 
\par an apple, and starts to eat it.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Gee, it's nice to see you, Dad.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods happily, enjoying the apple.  Then 
\par the Ghost beckons Hamlet to follow him.  
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I think you boys better go.  I 
\par think he wants to be alone with his 
\par son.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par All right.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Horatio, Bernardo and Francisco.  Again, 
\par the Ghost beckons Hamlet to follow him.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par OK, I'll follow you.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt the Ghost and Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene V
\par 
\par 
\par Scene V takes place on another part of the 
\par platform.  Enter the Ghost and Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Where wilt thou lead me?  I'll go 
\par no further.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shrugs, and stops.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par So, Dad, what's new?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost points to the apple core, grins, and 
\par gestures that he'd like something else to eat.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'm sorry, I don't have any more 
\par apples.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost makes a horrible disgusted face and 
\par turns away from Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Gee, if I'd only known, I...
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost makes a disparaging wave of his arms at 
\par Hamlet, and makes another horrible face.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Dad, isn't there something you 
\par wanted to tell me?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost suddenly remembers! He claps his hands 
\par and sits Hamlet down, and indicates that Hamlet 
\par should watch him.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh.  OK.  You're going to tell me a 
\par story.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods his head happily.  Then he reaches 
\par into his coat and pulls out a little pillow.  He 
\par puts the pillow down on the floor and mimes going 
\par to sleep with his head on the pillow.  Hamlet 
\par waits for a minute, watching the Ghost sleep.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Say, I thought Ghost stories were 
\par supposed to keep you awake.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost puts his fingers to his lips to indicate 
\par that Hamlet should be quiet, while he's sleeping.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par OK, you're sleeping.  Where are you 
\par sleeping?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost, still pretending to be asleep, holds up 
\par his hand, with the back of his hand facing the 
\par audience.  Then he pushes up the apple core to the 
\par top of his fingers, and mimes plucking an apple.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, you're asleep in the apple 
\par orchard.  I remember, you liked to 
\par sleep there!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods "yes."
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What happens next?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost stands up, takes the pillow and puts it 
\par under his shirt.  He pretends to be fat.  Then he 
\par pulls at an imaginary beard.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par A fat man...  a fat man with a 
\par beard...
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost makes an ugly face and mimes yelling and 
\par being angry.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par A fat, nasty man with a beard!  
\par Your brother Claudius!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods "yes."  Then he goes back to 
\par putting on the nasty, evil face of Claudius.  He 
\par stomps around the stage, pulling on his beard.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What does he do?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost, pretending to be Claudius, notices the 
\par apple core lying on the stage.  He picks it up, 
\par sees that it's been eaten, and brutishly throws it 
\par away.  He looks around the stage, and then looks 
\par in surprise at the spot where the Ghost was 
\par sleeping. The Ghost whips out the pillow, and 
\par resumes sleeping at that spot.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par OK, Claudius found you sleeping.  
\par What happened next?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost jumps up, puts the pillow back in under 
\par his shirt, and pretends to be Claudius.  He 
\par reaches into his coat, and pulls out a bottle of 
\par poison.  Then he reaches into his coat with his 
\par other hand and pulls out a funnel.  He walks over 
\par to where the Ghost has been sleeping, and mimes 
\par putting the funnel into the sleeping man's ear, 
\par and he pours the contents of the bottle into the 
\par funnel.  Then the Ghost whips out the pillow and 
\par becomes himself sleeping, with the funnel in his 
\par ear, and the poison being poured into it.  The 
\par Ghost wakes up and dies horribly.  
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh no!  Murder!  Foul and unnatural 
\par murder!  Claudius poured poison 
\par into your ear and killed you!!!  Oh 
\par murder most foul!!!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost sits up and nods his head in agreement.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh horrible!  Oh, horrible, most 
\par horrible!  ...  Well, what do you 
\par want me to do about it?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost mimes hitting, kicking, choking, and 
\par jumping up and down on someone.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You want me to take revenge on 
\par Claudius?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods "yes."
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, that sounds fair enough.  
\par What about Mom?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes his head "no."  He reaches into 
\par his coat and takes out a poster-sized picture of 
\par the Queen.  He kisses the picture and looks coy.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Not Mom.  You still love Mom.  Aww, 
\par that's sweet.  It's crazy, but it's 
\par sweet.  Maybe you should have your 
\par head examined, or at least your 
\par eyes.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost clutches the picture of the Queen to his 
\par chest, and looks threateningly at Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par OK!  Don't worry.  I won't hurt 
\par Mom.  Just Claudius.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes Hamlet's hand and pats him on the 
\par back.  Then the Ghost proceeds to put the picture, 
\par the pillow, the bottle and the funnel back into 
\par his coat.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You have to go so soon?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost points to the horizon.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, I see.  The sun's coming up.  
\par OK, Dad. It was nice seeing you 
\par again.  I'll get your revenge for 
\par you.  You can count on me.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost waves good-bye and exits.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Hmmmm.  Now what am I going to do?  
\par I can't just go downstairs and kill 
\par Claudius.  This is only Act I, and 
\par we've still got a whole play to 
\par fill up.  I know!  I'll pretend 
\par I've gone crazy.  That won't help 
\par me get revenge, but it should take 
\par up a few hours, and it may liven 
\par things up around here.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Horatio, Bernardo, and Francisco.
\par 
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Lord Hamlet!
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par What news, my lord?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Listen, boys, I don't want any of 
\par you to ever say a word about seeing 
\par that ghost, all right?
\par 
\par 
\par Off stage, the Ghost honks his horn.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Swear!
\par 
\par         BERNARDO
\par Propose the oath, my lord, and we 
\par will swear it.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Never to speak of what you have 
\par seen this night.
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par But we haven't seen anything!  
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Then never to speak of what you 
\par haven't seen!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I'm not sure I can remember 
\par everything I haven't seen.
\par 
\par 
\par Off stage, the Ghost honks his horn.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Swear!  Swear that you'll remember 
\par to forget everything you haven't 
\par seen.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I don't know.  I've got a pretty 
\par good memory.  
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet gives each of then a gold kroner piece.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Look, I'm going to lend each of you 
\par ten kroner.  Will you remember to 
\par pay back this loan?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What loan?
\par 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par We have forgotten everything, my 
\par lord!
\par 
\par 
\par Off stage, the Ghost honks his horn.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Swear!  Swear by my sword.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet isn't wearing a sword in this scene.  After 
\par this scene, he does wear a sword.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You forgot to bring your sword!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Then cross your hearts and hope to 
\par die!  
\par 
\par 
\par Off stage, the Ghost honks his horn.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Swear!
\par 
\par         HORATIO, BERNARDO, & 
\par         FRANCISCO
\par We swear!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par So, gentlemen, let us go in 
\par together; and still your fingers on 
\par your lips, I pray.  The time is out 
\par of joint.  Oh cursed spite, that 
\par ever I was born to set it right!
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par ACT II
\par 
\par Scene I
\par 
\par 
\par Scene I of Act II takes place at Polonius's house.  
\par It's one month later.  Polonius enters.  A moment 
\par later, Ophelia runs in.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par How now, Ophelia?  What's the 
\par matter?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Oh my lord, my lord, I have been so 
\par affrighted!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par With what?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Have you noticed anything peculiar 
\par about Prince Hamlet recently?
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Hamlet?  He's always been peculiar, 
\par ... but now that you mention it, he 
\par has been acting very strangely of 
\par late.  Why do you ask?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par He came to my room just now.  He 
\par took me by the wrist and held me 
\par hard, then he fell to such perusal 
\par of my face as if he would draw it, 
\par and then he raised a sigh so 
\par piteous and profound, ...  I think 
\par he loves me.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par This sounds like the very ecstasy 
\par of love!  Have you given him any 
\par hard words of late?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par I've been refusing to see him, as 
\par you told me I must.  You ordered me 
\par to stay away from him because he 
\par would never be permitted to marry 
\par someone of my lowly station.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I was wrong!  He truly loves you, 
\par and your rejection has driven him 
\par mad!  In the morning we must go to 
\par the King.
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius exits.  Ophelia watches him go off.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par My poor foolish father.  How easy 
\par it is to lead you from the truth.  
\par If the King as readily believes 
\par these lies of Hamlet's love, then 
\par soon shall I shall be Queen of 
\par Denmark!  
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia exits after Polonius.   Enter Horatio with 
\par the Ghost of Hamlet's father.  They have been 
\par listening to the preceding scene.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey Ghost, did you hear that?  It's 
\par a good thing we decided to spy.  
\par That lady's gonna make trouble for 
\par Hamlet.  I got to remember to warn 
\par him!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods in agreement.  Exeunt Horatio and 
\par the Ghost.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II takes place in a room in the Castle.  
\par This room has an arras (a tapestry wall hanging.)  
\par Enter the King and Queen, followed by ROSENCRANTZ 
\par and GUILDENSTERN.  Rosencrantz is a portly fellow 
\par with a tiny mustache, who affects very polished 
\par manners.  Guildenstern is thin and speaks with an 
\par English accent. 
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and 
\par Guildenstern. Moreover, that we 
\par much did long to see you, the need 
\par we have to use you did provoke our 
\par hasty sending.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Your Majesties!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz makes a very deep bow.  Guildenstern 
\par taps Rosencrantz on the shoulder and points to 
\par Claudius.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Who's he?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par That's the King!
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par I thought you said the King was 
\par dead.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par The old King is dead.  This is the 
\par new King!
\par 
\par 
\par Guildenstern looks at the King very carefully.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par He doesn't look very new to me.
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz speaks to the King.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Please forgive my friend, your 
\par Majesty.  We've had a very long 
\par trip, and he's tired.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par No I'm not.  We had a nap after 
\par lunch...
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz glares at Guildenstern, silencing him.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par I trust that you have heard 
\par something of Prince Hamlet's 
\par transformation.  I don't know what 
\par may have caused this sudden change 
\par in him.  You are two of his oldest 
\par and dearest friends.  Perhaps you 
\par can tell us what is the matter.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Good gentlemen, Hamlet has often 
\par talked of you.  I'm sure there 
\par aren't two men living of whom he is 
\par more fond.  Please stay with us 
\par awhile, and we will see that you 
\par are well rewarded.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par It will be our pleasure to obey 
\par your every command, your Majesties.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par That's right!  After all, you are 
\par the King, even if you're not dead 
\par yet, so if there's anything we can 
\par do to make your job any easier, 
\par just call on us.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par He means we're ready to do whatever 
\par you tell us.  The most difficult 
\par task won't be too difficult for us 
\par to attempt!  Isn't that right, 
\par Guildenstern?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Yes, and the simplest task won't be 
\par simple enough for us to do either.  
\par What is it you want us to do, 
\par anyway?
\par 
\par         KING
\par Tell us what is wrong with Prince 
\par Hamlet!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern confer privately in 
\par whispers, then Guildenstern speaks.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par We heard he's gone screwy.
\par 
\par         KING
\par We know that!  Find out why he's 
\par gone screwy!!!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par We'll do our best, your Majesty.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Go, and find Prince Hamlet!
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  Enter 
\par Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par My good lord, the ambassador from 
\par Norway has returned!
\par 
\par         KING
\par I trust he brings good news.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par That reminds me, I think I have 
\par discovered the cause of Hamlet's 
\par lunacy.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Oh?  That is something I long to 
\par hear!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par First listen to the ambassador.  My 
\par news shall be the fruit to that 
\par great feast.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Go then, and bring in the 
\par ambassador.
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius exits.  The King turns to the Queen.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Did you hear that?  Polonius thinks 
\par he has discovered the source of 
\par your son's strange behavior.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I don't think it is anything but 
\par his father's death, and our own 
\par hasty marriage, but we shall see.
\par 
\par 
\par Re-enter Polonius with VOLTIMAND, the ambassador 
\par from Norway.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Well, what news from the King of 
\par Norway?
\par 
\par         VOLTIMAND
\par The King was very surprised by your 
\par letter.  He thought young 
\par Fortinbras was preparing to invade 
\par Poland, but when he found out that 
\par Fortinbras meant to attack Denmark, 
\par he rebuked him most severely.  
\par Young Fortinbras then promised the 
\par King he would never invade Denmark, 
\par but asked if he might invade Poland 
\par instead.  He would like your 
\par permission to bring his army 
\par through Denmark, on his way to 
\par attack the Poles.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Well, that sounds like a reasonable 
\par request.  Go back to Norway, and 
\par give young Fortinbras my permission 
\par to bring his army through Denmark.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Voltimand.  The King turns to Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Now, Polonius, tell us your news!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I have a daughter.  She has told me 
\par that Hamlet has been sending her 
\par love letters.  I said to her, "Lord 
\par Hamlet is a prince, and above thy 
\par station!  Avoid him!"  She has 
\par avoided him, and since that time, 
\par he has gone mad!
\par 
\par         KING
\par Could this be true?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par It may be.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par My daughter has given me an idea.  
\par Prince Hamlet often walks alone 
\par here in this part of the castle.  
\par Tomorrow my daughter will wait to 
\par meet him here.  We shall hide 
\par behind this arras, and see what 
\par happens then.
\par 
\par         KING
\par We will try it.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Hamlet, reading a book.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Look, how sadly the poor wretch 
\par comes reading.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Leave me to talk with him alone.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt the King and Queen.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par How does my lord Hamlet?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Booga-booga-booga!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Do you know me, my lord?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Let's see, ...  Aren't you Abie the 
\par Fishman?
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Not I, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par No, I guess that was another play.  
\par It's too bad.  There were a lot 
\par more laughs in that show.  So, who 
\par are you, anyway?  No, wait!  Let me 
\par guess!  Have you got a daughter?
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I have, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Tell me, ... does your daughter 
\par fool around?
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Never!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Good, because you know what fooling 
\par around can lead to, don't you?  
\par Grandchildren!  And grandchildren 
\par can lead to great-grandchildren!  
\par You know, there'd be a lot less 
\par fooling around here in Denmark if 
\par you old people would just stop 
\par having grandchildren!  And at your 
\par age too!!!  You should be ashamed 
\par of yourself!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par My daughter is a modest, virtuous 
\par maiden.  She will make some man a 
\par fine wife.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Good, have her make one for me.  In 
\par fact, I'll take half a dozen.  No, 
\par make it a dozen.  Christmas is 
\par coming up, and I need some gifts 
\par for my friends.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par What do you read, my lord?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Words, words, words.  I can never 
\par remember this scene, so I keep a 
\par copy of the script in here.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Though this be madness, yet there 
\par is method in it.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Fare you well, my lord.
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius goes over to speak to Rosencrantz and 
\par Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par You go to seek Prince Hamlet.  
\par There he is.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par (to Polonius)
\par God save you, sir!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par My most dear lord!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Eh?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Don't you remember us?  I am 
\par Rosencrantz, and this is my good 
\par friend, Guildenstern!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par My most excellent good friends!  
\par How do you both?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Not badly.  Not badly at all!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, really?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Yes, we get a big reward if we can 
\par find out why you're screwy.
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz takes Guildenstern aside.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par You weren't supposed to tell him 
\par that!  That was supposed to be a 
\par secret!
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par But he's our friend.  If we can't 
\par trust him, who can we trust?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par We can't trust anyone!  Now 
\par whatever you do, don't tell him the 
\par King and Queen sent for us.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par You can count on me!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern go back over to 
\par Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Tell me, why did you two come to 
\par Elsinore?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Why, to visit you, my lord.  No 
\par other reason.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You weren't sent for?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Yes, we weren't.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'm glad to hear it.  Who didn't 
\par send for you?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par The King and Queen.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's funny, because I've been 
\par dying to tell someone why I've been 
\par acting so crazy, but I wouldn't 
\par want to tell anyone who wasn't sent 
\par for by the King and Queen.
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz takes Guildenstern aside.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par What do we say now?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Let's tell him we were sent for.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par That's a good idea.
\par 
\par 
\par They go back over to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par My lord, we were sent for.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Now tell us what's the matter with 
\par you.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I have of late, but wherefore I 
\par know not, lost all my mirth.  Well, 
\par maybe not all my mirth, but I 
\par certainly haven't been having a 
\par very good time lately, especially 
\par since you boys showed up!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par I understand perfectly!  You're 
\par depressed!
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Does that mean we can collect the 
\par reward now?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Certainly not!  Hamlet's our 
\par friend!  What kind of friends would 
\par we be if we didn't do something to 
\par cheer him up?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Well, if we got the reward, we 
\par could go out and buy him a vanilla 
\par ice cream cone.  That always cheers 
\par me up when I'm decompressed.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Hamlet's problems are 
\par psychological!  He needs to talk 
\par about them, and get them out into 
\par the open.
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz turns back to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Why don't you tell us more about 
\par how you feel?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Very well.  I didn't want to tell 
\par you, but you forced it out of me.  
\par Oh, I'm so ashamed.  I just found 
\par out ...  I just found out my two 
\par best friends are a couple of 
\par morons.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par No wonder you're depressed!  I'd be 
\par depressed too if I found out my 
\par best friends were morons.  Wouldn't 
\par you, Guildenstern?  
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par I certainly would, Rosencrantz, but 
\par I'd still be your friend anyway, in 
\par spite of it!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz suddenly suspects that Hamlet has 
\par insulted them.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Wait just a minute!  I thought we 
\par were your best friends.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I hate to break it to you boys, but 
\par I don't think either one of you 
\par could pass the aptitude test to 
\par become court fools.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par We could too!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Come, Guildenstern.  We don't have 
\par to stay here to be insulted.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par No, you probably don't.  But wait!  
\par Don't go!  I'm sorry.  It's just 
\par that I've been so insane lately.  
\par What a piece of work is a man!  How 
\par noble in reason. How infinite in 
\par faculties!  In form and moving how 
\par express and admirable!  In action 
\par how like an angel! In apprehension 
\par how like a god!  There, if that 
\par doesn't convince you I'm crazy, 
\par nothing will!  Take a look around 
\par this castle if you want to see what 
\par a piece of work is a man!  God's 
\par just lucky he didn't give out 
\par warranties!  Oh, I'm so depressed.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par We have some news that may cheer 
\par you up, my lord.  On our way into 
\par Elsinore, we passed a gentleman who 
\par said he was going to bring back 
\par some players to perform for you 
\par tomorrow night!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's funny.  I was just saying to 
\par Horatio how much I'd like to see a 
\par really good play.  
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet addresses the audience directly on the next 
\par line.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par (to audience)
\par And I bet you folks feel the same 
\par way.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, Hamlet, have I got a deal for 
\par you!!!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Why is it that suddenly suicide 
\par seems like a good idea?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You say you want to see a play, so 
\par I go out and I find the finest 
\par players in the land, just for you!  
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Really?  When can I see them?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Not so fast.  First you got to talk 
\par to their manager.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Who's their manager, as if I 
\par couldn't guess?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par It's funny you should ask.  When I 
\par found these players, they're the 
\par finest players in the land, but 
\par guess what?  They haven't got a 
\par manager!  So what can I do?  My 
\par friend Prince Hamlet wants to see a 
\par play, but how's he going to hire 
\par these players without a manager?  
\par Then I get a wonderful idea!!!  
\par I'll be their manager!
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Gee, isn't he a swell guy?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par He certainly is!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par How much are you going to charge me 
\par to see these players?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Twenty kroner.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Twenty kroner?  That's not bad.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par That's just to see them.  Now if 
\par you want them to put on a play, 
\par that's another fifty kroner.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What kind of play will they put on 
\par for this ... total of seventy 
\par kroner?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Well, there's two kinds of plays.  
\par There's good plays and bad plays.  
\par If you want a good play, it's an 
\par extra fifty kroner.  
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well then, have them put on a bad 
\par play.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I'm sorry, they don't do bad plays.  
\par They've go a reputation to hold up.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par A hundred and twenty kroner sounds 
\par right for a hold-up.  Is that the 
\par entire cost?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure, that's the whole price.  One 
\par hundred and twenty kroner for a 
\par real good play.  Oh, I almost 
\par forgot to ask, you don't want them 
\par to learn their lines, do you?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par No, I wouldn't think of it.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Cause if you did, that would be 
\par another thirty kroner.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Just have them read the lines.
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio gives Hamlet a look, indicating Hamlet is 
\par being silly.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par On second thought, why be stingy?  
\par Let them learn their lines!  We've 
\par got a deal then!  One hundred and 
\par fifty kroner.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet pays the money to Horatio.  Enter Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par My lord, there are some men at the 
\par castle gate, who claim to be 
\par players ... .
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Then let them in!  Let them in!
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius goes to get the players.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'm really looking forward to this.  
\par It's about time we had some good 
\par sophisticated adult drama around 
\par here.
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius comes back in with the three players:  
\par the FIRST PLAYER is a grumpy, bossy man with a 
\par Prince Valiant-type haircut, the SECOND PLAYER has 
\par very frizzy hair, and the THIRD PLAYER is a fat, 
\par bald idiot.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par So these are the finest players in 
\par the land?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par They must be.  No one else can get 
\par these prices!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, let's see what they can do.  
\par Give me a sample.  I want to hear 
\par something old and classical.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet turns to the First Player.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Do you know "The Death of Priam"?
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par I didn't even know he was sick!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, that's old, but it isn't 
\par classical.  That's one of the 
\par oldest jokes I've ever heard.  How 
\par is it that you don't know the 
\par famous speech about the death of 
\par King Priam?  All great actors know 
\par that speech!  Your manager here 
\par said that you were the finest 
\par players in the land!
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par We are!  We get fined in every town 
\par we play in!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player laughs.  The First Player hits 
\par the Third Player on top of his head, and the Third 
\par Player squeals.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Listen, we're very good at what we 
\par do!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par And what is it you do?
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Mostly we call each other names, 
\par make funny noises, hit each other, 
\par and poke each other in the eye.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Is there much of an audience for 
\par that?
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Certainly!!!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I have heard of these players, my 
\par lord.  They are very successful.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I repeat:  What a piece of work is 
\par a man!  How noble in reason!
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par You still want a sample?  Watch 
\par what we can do!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Are you going to hit the fat guy 
\par again?
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Sure, if that's what you want.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Only if you keep it up until you 
\par kill him.  Actually, I was hoping 
\par for something a little more 
\par refined.
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par We're very refined.  Whenever we go 
\par into a town, right after we get 
\par fined once, we usually get refined.
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player laughs.  The First Player hits 
\par him on the head, and he squeals.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par This could quickly become 
\par monotonous.
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player hits the Second Player on the 
\par head.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Ow!!!  What did you hit me for?
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Variety!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Couldn't you do something poetic, 
\par with lots of conflict, a tragedy 
\par about man's inhumanity to man?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Why didn't you say that's what you 
\par wanted?  These guys specialize in 
\par that!
\par 
\par         PLAYERS
\par We do?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure!  Do the show I taught you 
\par this afternoon.  You remember, the 
\par one with poetry and conflict.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What's this show called?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par "Simple Simon," by Mother Goose.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Say, I think I know that one.
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Watch this!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player and the Third Player run off 
\par opposite sides of the stage.  The Second Player 
\par steps to center stage and clears his throat.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par This afternoon, we bring you a 
\par classic tale of hunger and greed, 
\par that famous poem known the world 
\par over ... "Simple Simon."
\par 
\par 
\par There is a long pause.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well?
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par I forgot how it starts.
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player runs on.  He wears a chef's hat 
\par and apron.  He hits the Second Player on top of 
\par the head.
\par 
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par "Simple Simon met a pie-man..."
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player runs back off-stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Oh yes!  (Ahem.)
\par Simple Simon
\par Met a pie-man
\par Going to the faire!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player, dressed as a pie-man, and 
\par carrying a big cream pie, enters from one side of 
\par the stage.  The Third Player, singing stupidly, 
\par enters from the other side.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par La-la-lee-la-la!
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Said Simple Simon,
\par To the pie-man,
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Let me taste your ware!
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Said the pie-man,
\par To Simple Simon,
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Show me first your penny!
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par Said Simple Simon,
\par To the pie-man,
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par In truth, I haven't any!
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Oh, a deadbeat!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player hits the Third Player in the face 
\par with the pie.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Oh!  Vanilla custard!  My favorite!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player laughs.  The First Player hits 
\par the Third Player on top of his head, and the Third 
\par Player squeals.  All three Players bow, banging 
\par their heads together.  Horatio, Polonius, 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern all applaud 
\par enthusiastically.  Horatio turns to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Pretty good stuff, eh?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Boys, I think you've captured the 
\par essence of human existence, and now 
\par that you've captured it, I hope 
\par you'll never let it out again.  No, 
\par on second thought, I want you to 
\par perform for Claudius tomorrow 
\par night.  He deserves to see this.  
\par Polonius, show these men to their 
\par rooms.
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius leads out the Second and Third Players.  
\par Hamlet grabs the First Player by the arm to speak 
\par with him privately.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Wait a second, I want to talk to 
\par you.  Can you play "The Murder of 
\par Gonzago"?
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Sorry, I never heard of it.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par All right, can you play "The Queen 
\par of Hearts"?  It's by the same 
\par author as "Simple Simon."  You 
\par remember, "The Queen of Hearts, she 
\par made some tarts..."
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Yes, my lord, we know that one.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I figured you would.  We'll have it 
\par tomorrow night.  But I've got a few 
\par special changes I want you to put 
\par in.  I'll come by and give them to 
\par you later.  Now go to your room!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player exits.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par That certainly was a fine 
\par performance, wasn't it?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par I'll say!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Didn't you think the roles were 
\par particularly well cast?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par I thought the pie was well cast.  
\par Were there rolls in it too?  I 
\par didn't see the rolls.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Go to your rooms!!!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Good-bye, my lord.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par So long!
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, bowing to 
\par Hamlet.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, what a rogue and peasant slave 
\par am I!  Is it not monstrous that 
\par these players here can slap each 
\par other around like that, and I can't 
\par even lay a finger on Claudius?  
\par They hit each other, hurt each 
\par other, and all I can come up with 
\par is clever banter!  I'm nothing but 
\par a coward, a Noel Coward!  Well, 
\par maybe not such an ol' coward, more 
\par of a young coward.  And after all, 
\par I have no real proof that Claudius 
\par killed my father.  All I've got is 
\par the word of a ghost who can't even 
\par talk!  I know what I'll do.  I'll 
\par have these players perform 
\par something like the murder of my 
\par father.  If Claudius looks guilty, 
\par I'll know he did it!  The play's 
\par the thing, wherein I'll catch the 
\par conscience of the King!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par ACT III
\par 
\par Scene I
\par 
\par 
\par Scene I takes place in a room in the castle.  This 
\par is the same room as in Act II, Scene II.  Enter 
\par the King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, 
\par and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par         KING
\par And can you, by no drift of 
\par circumstance, get from him why he 
\par puts on this confusion, grating so 
\par harshly all his days of quiet with 
\par turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern consult with each 
\par other in whispers.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Would you mind rephrasing the 
\par question?
\par 
\par         KING
\par Have you found out yet why Hamlet's 
\par gone screwy?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par We're making progress, your 
\par majesty, but he hasn't told us the 
\par whole story yet.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Well, what has he told you?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par He's oppressed because man is a 
\par piece of work, who fills out forms 
\par with infinite reasons . . and moves 
\par like an admiral on an express, and 
\par ...  and is apprehensive of god, .  
\par .  and his two best friends are a 
\par couple of morons!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par But we do have some good news, your 
\par majesties!  Some traveling players 
\par have arrived at the castle, and 
\par your son is going to have them put 
\par on a play!
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hmmmm, maybe this play will take 
\par his mind off of whatever it is that 
\par is troubling him so much.  The next 
\par time you see Hamlet, do your best 
\par to keep him in a good mood!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Now Gertrude, I would like you to 
\par leave us alone for awhile, while I 
\par try to discover what is the matter 
\par with your son.  I have sent for 
\par him, and Polonius and I will hide 
\par and watch while he meets Ophelia.  
\par We should be able to tell from his 
\par reactions if it is really love that 
\par is causing him to act so strangely.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Very well.  Ophelia, I hope you can 
\par do something about all this.  I do 
\par not understand what has gotten into 
\par that boy!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Queen.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par Ophelia, you stand here and wait 
\par for Hamlet.  The King and I shall 
\par hide behind this arras.
\par 
\par 
\par The King and Polonius exit behind the arras.  
\par Enter Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par To be, or not to be; that is the 
\par question.  
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet starts speaking directly to the audience.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par If you can answer the question, you 
\par win fifty dollars, which you'll 
\par have to split among the lot of you.  
\par To be, or not to be?  Does anyone 
\par have the answer? 
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet points to a member of the audience.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You?  I'm sorry, anything you have 
\par is obviously no good.  Including 
\par your date.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet suddenly turns somber.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, why don't I just kill myself 
\par now, and let you folks go home 
\par early?  Better yet, why don't you 
\par folks kill yourselves now, and let 
\par me go home early?  You can take my 
\par word for it, you've seen the best 
\par part of the show.  It's all 
\par downhill from here.  So what do you 
\par say to a little mass suicide?  Just 
\par think of it, I wouldn't even have 
\par to take a curtain call, and you 
\par folks could make theater history.  
\par Well, come on!  What are you 
\par waiting for?  You're not afraid of 
\par a little death, are you?  Are you?  
\par But then, maybe you should be 
\par afraid.  Who knows what would 
\par happen to you if you did kill 
\par yourselves?  In your next life, you 
\par might have to watch this play 
\par rewritten for Abbott and Costello!
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia, tired of waiting for Hamlet to notice 
\par her, calls to him.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Hamlet!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What's this?  The fair Ophelia!
\par 
\par 
\par Suddenly Horatio rushes on stage, grabs Hamlet, 
\par and pulls him over to one side of the stage, away 
\par from Ophelia.  Horatio speaks privately to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, Hamlet, I just remembered.  
\par You gotta watch out for Ophelia.  
\par She wants to marry you so she can 
\par be Queen!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh yeah?  We'll just see about 
\par that!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Good day, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Says you!
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par It's been many days since I've seen 
\par your honor.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Let's keep my honor out of this.  
\par You'd like to see my honor, 
\par wouldn't you?  Well, that's too 
\par bad, because it's private, see?  My 
\par honor's not for sale.  Not at 
\par reasonable prices, anyway.  But for 
\par an unreasonable price, maybe we 
\par could make a deal.  How much honor 
\par did you have in mind?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par My lord, I have some love letters 
\par to return to you.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'm sorry, you'll have to come up 
\par with cash on the line, or it's no 
\par deal.  Letters!!!
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par You told me you loved me once, and 
\par I did believe you.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What?  You expect me to believe 
\par that you believed me?  Isn't that 
\par just like a woman!  Well, I don't 
\par believe you believed me, so there!  
\par Now, do you believe I don't believe 
\par that you believed me?  That's a 
\par better question than "to be or not 
\par to be?".
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par You deceived me, my lord.  You took 
\par advantage of my poor innocence.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You've got the poorest innocence 
\par I've ever seen!
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia starts acting girlish, trying to charm 
\par Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par But... don't you ever want to be a 
\par daddy?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Why?  You want to get adopted?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Not me, Hammy!  I mean, don't you 
\par want to have your own children!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Listen, Ophy, I've got enough 
\par problems with the relatives I've 
\par already got.
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par But don't you think I'd make a good 
\par mother?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I think you'd make a mother 
\par superior, so why don't you get thee 
\par to a nunnery?   
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par But...
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Go!
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia speaks loudly so that the King and 
\par Polonius can hear her.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Oh, what a noble mind is here 
\par o'erthrown!
\par 
\par 
\par She turns to Hamlet and hisses a threat at him.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par I'll get you for this!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet shrugs and exits.  Enter the King and 
\par Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par That did not sound like love to me!  
\par I don't trust that fellow one bit.  
\par I'd feel safer if he were far from 
\par Denmark,... say in England.
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par I still think he has gone mad from 
\par love for my daughter.  After the 
\par play tomorrow night, why don't we 
\par have his mother speak to him 
\par privately, and I will hide and 
\par listen to what they say.  Then, if 
\par you still think he is dangerous, 
\par you can send him to England, or 
\par confine him where you think best.
\par 
\par         KING
\par It shall be so.  Madness in great 
\par ones must not unwatched go.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II takes place in a hall in the castle.  
\par Enter Hamlet and the Players.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Speak the speech, I pray you, as I 
\par pronounced it to you!
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Don't worry, your princeship, we'll 
\par do everything just like you said.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par And no melodramatic gestures!  
\par Don't saw the air with your hands.
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Relax!  I never saw the air with my 
\par hands!  I saw the air with my eyes!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player laughs, the First Player pounds 
\par him on the head, and the Third Player squeals.
\par 
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par That's not what he means!  He means 
\par don't do this!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player saws the air upward with his 
\par hand, as the other Players watch him, and then he 
\par suddenly jerks his hand down, giving the other 
\par Players whiplash.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What I mean is, don't overact.  Be 
\par natural!  Try to behave like normal 
\par human beings.
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par I thought you wanted us to be 
\par natural.
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player pounds the Second Player on the 
\par head.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Go!  Make ready for the play.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt the Players. Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz 
\par and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par The play is about to start.  Go get 
\par the King and Queen.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par  We will, my lord.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  Enter 
\par Horatio. Hamlet goes to Horatio and speaks to him 
\par privately.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Horatio!  Watch my uncle during the 
\par play.  Let me know if he does 
\par anything funny.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Don't worry.  No one does anything 
\par funny in any play while I'm around!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, that explains a lot.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter the King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par All right, everyone sit down.  The 
\par play's about to start.
\par 
\par 
\par Everyone except Hamlet sits on the floor.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Come hither, my dear Hamlet.  Sit 
\par by me.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par No thanks, Mom.  I want to annoy 
\par Ophelia.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet goes over to Ophelia, who treats him very 
\par coldly.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par No, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I mean, my head in your lap.
\par 
\par 
\par He lies down with his head in her lap.  She 
\par remains cold to him.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Aye, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Did you think I meant country 
\par matters?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par I think nothing, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's a fair thought to lie 
\par between maids' legs.
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par What is, my lord?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Nothing.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet waggishly raises and lowers his eyebrows.  
\par Then he turns to the audience.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Shakespeare wrote that one.
\par 
\par 
\par The Second Player steps out and waits for everyone 
\par to quiet down.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Quiet everyone!  The play's 
\par starting.
\par 
\par 
\par The Second Player declaims the prologue to the 
\par play.
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par The Queen of Hearts
\par She made some tarts,
\par All on a summer's day;
\par The Knave of Hearts
\par He stole the tarts,
\par And took them clean away.
\par The King of Hearts
\par Called for the tarts,
\par And beat the Knave full sore;
\par The Knave of Hearts
\par Brought back the tarts,
\par And vowed he'd steal no more.
\par 
\par 
\par The Second Player bows to applause and exits.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That was just the prologue.  Now 
\par the real play begins!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player enters.  He is dressed as the 
\par King of Hearts.  He speaks bombastically.
\par 
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par I am the noble King of Hearts!
\par I want my Queen to bake some tarts.
\par The finest pastries in the land
\par Are made by her own dainty hands.
\par Where is the Queen!  I want her 
\par here!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player, affecting a high, shrill voice 
\par answers from off stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par (off stage)
\par Hold your horses!  I'm coming, 
\par dear!
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par My own dear wife!  I know that I
\par Will always love her till I die!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player enters in drag, dressed as the 
\par Queen of Hearts.  The First Player is horrified by 
\par her frightful appearance.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Sorry I'm late.  I'd lost my wig.
\par How do I look?
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par     Just like a ... fig-
\par Ure of beauty, your teeth like 
\par pearls!
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Aw, you say that to all the girls.
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player gives the First Player a playful 
\par shove, nearly knocking him over.
\par 
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Say you'll be forever true!
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Certainly, Kingsie!  Who else do 
\par you
\par Think I'd go for?
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par For a start,
\par My brother, the evil Knave of 
\par Hearts!
\par If I catch you two together,
\par Ever again, I don't care whether
\par He has a knife, an ax or spear,
\par I'll kill him first, then you, my 
\par dear!
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Take it easy!  Please, calm down!
\par I'm not the type who'd play around!
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Ever since that time I caught
\par Him with your tarts I've been 
\par distraught!
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par You can trust me.  Wait and see!
\par I'll behave so faithfully,
\par I'll bake my tarts for only you!
\par Cross my heart!  It's true!  It's 
\par true!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet turns to his mother, as the First Player 
\par and Third Player exit, arm in arm, from the stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What do you think, Mom?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par The lady doth protest too much, 
\par methinks.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter the Second Player, dressed as the Knave of 
\par Hearts.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par I'm the wicked Knave of Hearts!
\par I'd love to grab the fair Queen's 
\par tarts,
\par Filled with apples, pears, or 
\par plums!
\par Why speak of the devil, here she 
\par comes!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter the Third Player, singing and carrying a 
\par table.  On the table are a number of small cream 
\par pies, and at least one large cream pie.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par La la lee la la.
\par 
\par 
\par Suddenly the Third Player spots the Second Player, 
\par and puts down the table.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Hey!  You!  What are you doing 
\par here?
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par I came to taste your tarts, my 
\par dear!
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par Have you got rocks inside your 
\par head?
\par If the King finds us here, we're 
\par dead!
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par You think I'm frightened of that 
\par bum?
\par That stupid fool!  That twerp!  
\par That crumb!
\par Hey!  I'll tell you what I'll do,
\par I'll kill the King and marry you!
\par 
\par 
\par As the Second Player continues telling his plans, 
\par the real King, seated in the audience, becomes 
\par visibly upset.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par I'll wait until he's fast asleep
\par Out in his orchard.  There I'll 
\par creep.
\par I'll bring a jar of poison, dear,
\par And I will pour it in his ear!
\par 
\par 
\par The King stands, horrified.  At this point, the 
\par First Player enters, unnoticed by the Second 
\par Player or the First Player.
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par As soon as that poor slob is dead,
\par I'll arrange that we'll be wed!
\par And you will bake the pies I crave,
\par While he is rotting in his grave.
\par 
\par 
\par The Second Player picks up a small cream pie.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Stop the play!
\par 
\par 
\par The Players are so intent on their play that they 
\par ignore the King.  Suddenly, the Third Player 
\par (still in his role as the Queen of Hearts) spots 
\par the First Player.
\par 
\par 
\par         THIRD PLAYER
\par I think it's high time that I went!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player starts to walk off stage.  The 
\par First Player grabs the Second Player and spins him 
\par around.  The Second Player accidentally hits the 
\par First Player in the face with the pie.
\par 
\par 
\par         SECOND PLAYER
\par I didn't mean it!  It was an 
\par accident!
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Why, you...
\par 
\par         KING
\par Stop the play!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player picks up a pie, and throws it at 
\par the Second Player.  The Second Player ducks, and 
\par the pie hits the Third Player.  The King walks 
\par over to the Players to stop the play.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Stop the play!
\par 
\par 
\par The Third Player picks up a large cream pie and 
\par starts to smash it into the face of the First 
\par Player.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Give me some light!!!
\par 
\par 
\par The First Player ducks and the Third Player hits 
\par the real King in the face with the pie.  The real 
\par King rushes off stage.  The Queen, Polonius, 
\par Ophelia, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern follow the 
\par King.
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par I think we'd better beat it, boys.
\par 
\par 
\par The Players exit.  Only Hamlet and Horatio are 
\par left on stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Did you see that?  Did you?  Did 
\par you see what the King did?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Yeah, he got the pie I wanted.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par And he stopped the play before the 
\par best part!  Right before the big 
\par musical number!
\par 
\par 
\par Re-enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  They walk 
\par hesitantly up to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par We have a message for you from your 
\par mother.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Yes?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par She wants to speak to you in her 
\par room before you go to bed.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par All right.
\par 
\par 
\par He looks at Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, who 
\par obviously have something else on their minds, but 
\par who are reluctant to speak up.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Do you boys have anything else on 
\par your minds?
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern remain silent.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Do you have anything on your minds?  
\par Do you have minds?
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern look at each other, 
\par and then Guildenstern summons up the courage to 
\par speak to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par We still don't know why you're 
\par screwy.
\par 
\par 
\par At this point the Players walk in playing 
\par recorders.  They do not play very well.
\par 
\par 
\par         FIRST PLAYER
\par Since the King didn't seem to like 
\par our play, we thought he might enjoy 
\par some music.  Where is the King?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Let me see that.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet snatches one of the recorders.  He looks at 
\par it, then hands it to Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Here.  Play upon this pipe.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par My lord, I cannot.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I pray you.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Believe me, I cannot.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Please.  I beseech you.
\par 
\par 
\par Suddenly Hamlet's voice turns threatening.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Play it!!!
\par 
\par 
\par Guildenstern is near tears.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par I don't know how to play the pipe.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You don't, eh?  Then you must think 
\par I'm simpler than this pipe!  You 
\par think you can get all my secrets 
\par out of me just by asking, but you 
\par can't get anything out of this 
\par pipe!  You're willing to play on 
\par me, aren't you?  You think it's 
\par easier to play on me than this 
\par pipe!  You thought you could play 
\par me, so surely you can play a simple 
\par pipe!  Go ahead!  Play it!!!
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par But I don't ... I . . .
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Play it!
\par 
\par 
\par Guildenstern tearfully tries to play the pipe.  To 
\par his surprise, beautiful music comes out.  
\par Guildenstern takes the pipe away from his lips to 
\par examine it.  He can't figure out how he managed to 
\par play it.  He gives up trying to figure it out, 
\par shrugs his shoulders, and happily begins to play 
\par again.  Guildenstern continues to play very 
\par complicated, rich, classical music.  He plays like 
\par an expert, even though he doesn't know how.  
\par Guildenstern stops playing and smiles happily at 
\par Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Excuse me, I think I hear my mother 
\par calling.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Hamlet.  Exeunt all.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene III
\par 
\par 
\par Scene III takes place in a room in the castle.  
\par Enter the King, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par I like him not, nor stands it safe 
\par with us to let his madness range.  
\par Therefore prepare you.  I shall 
\par execute a commission for you to 
\par take him with you to England.  Go!  
\par Get ready!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern bow and exit.  Enter 
\par Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par My lord, he's going to his mother's 
\par room.  I'll get there first and 
\par hide behind the arras and listen to 
\par what they say.  I'll tell you 
\par everything.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Thank you, my good friend.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Oh my offense is rank, it smells to 
\par heaven.  I have murdered my own 
\par brother.  Prince Hamlet knows what 
\par I have done; I'm sure of it.  He 
\par puts on a mask of madness, while he 
\par plots against me, and I deserve to 
\par be plotted against.  I've killed my 
\par brother!  I should pray for 
\par forgiveness, but how can I?  I 
\par still have my crown and my queen, 
\par and I will not give them up.  I 
\par will not show repentance.  Alas, 
\par there can be no forgiveness without 
\par repentance, can there?
\par 
\par 
\par The King kneels, sorrowfully, as if in prayer.  
\par Enter Hamlet.  He is startled to see the King.  
\par Hamlet muses to himself.   The King is unaware of 
\par Hamlet's presence.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What's this?  The King! I could 
\par kill him now, while he's alone.  It 
\par would be easy.  I could run him 
\par through while he's praying and send 
\par him straight to heaven, which is 
\par better than he deserves ... much 
\par better.  He's praying, which means 
\par if I killed him now, he'd go 
\par straight to heaven, ... and I'd be 
\par left down here in Denmark.  He'd 
\par like that, I'll bet!  I can just 
\par see him up there, laughing at me!  
\par Why shouldn't he laugh?  He gets 
\par heavenly bliss, and I'm stuck here 
\par with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!  
\par He'd think that was pretty funny, 
\par the lout!  Well, I'll show him.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet strides over to the King.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I wouldn't kill you now if you 
\par begged me!  So there!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Hamlet.  The King is bewildered.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Maybe he really is insane after 
\par all.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit the King.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene IV
\par 
\par 
\par Scene IV takes place in the Queen's bedroom.  
\par Enter the Queen and Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par He will come straight.  Pray you, 
\par be round with him.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par (off stage)
\par Mother!  Mother!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Withdraw!  I hear him coming.
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius hides behind the arras.  The Queen sits 
\par in a chair.  Enter Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Now, Mother, what's the matter?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Hamlet, thou hast thy father much 
\par offended.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Mother, thou hast my father much 
\par offended.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Come, come, you answer with an idle 
\par tongue.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Go, go, you question with a wicked 
\par tongue.  And thou hast my father 
\par much offended!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Have you forgotten who I am?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par No!  You are the Queen, your 
\par husband's brother's wife; and -- 
\par would it were not so -- you are my 
\par mother!  And thou hast my father 
\par much offended!  Let's see you top 
\par that!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I don't understand a word you're 
\par saying.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par No, you wouldn't, would you?  All 
\par you did was marry your own brother-
\par in-law, my uncle.  That's all you 
\par did, relatively speaking.  Did you 
\par ever stop to think where we'd be if 
\par everyone married my uncle?  Why, 
\par we'd be up to our ears in aunts, 
\par for one thing, and that's no 
\par picnic.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I give up!  I can't talk to you.
\par 
\par 
\par The Queen starts to stand.  Hamlet pushes her back 
\par down into her chair.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh no, you're going to take a good 
\par hard look at yourself and face the 
\par ugly truth.
\par 
\par 
\par The Queen panics.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par What are you going to do?  You 
\par won't murder me?  Help!  Help me!
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par (behind the arras)
\par What?  Help!  Help!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par How now!  A rat!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet stabs Polonius through the arras.
\par 
\par 
\par         POLONIUS
\par (behind the arras)
\par Oh, I am slain!
\par 
\par 
\par Polonius falls and dies, still behind the arras.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Is that the King?
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet pulls aside the arras and discovers 
\par Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oops.  Well, I guess the joke's on 
\par me.  I just killed the wrong man!  
\par I'll tell you what, Mom, you keep 
\par quiet about this to Claudius, and I 
\par won't tell him about the strange 
\par man hiding in your bedroom.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Oh what a rash and bloody deed is 
\par this!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, so now you're going to blame 
\par all this on me!  Some mother you 
\par are!  If you hadn't married my 
\par uncle, none of this would have 
\par happened, and we could all be 
\par performing "The Merry Wives of 
\par Windsor" somewhere.  Why couldn't 
\par you have stayed married to my 
\par father?  My father!  Now there's an 
\par ideal husband!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par But your father is dead.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's what I mean.  He's quiet, 
\par undemanding, and you don't have to 
\par cook for him.  But you preferred to 
\par marry a pig like Claudius and make 
\par him the new Danish King.  Claudius!  
\par He's the cheesiest Danish I've ever 
\par seen.  Aren't you ashamed?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Stop!  I refuse to listen to 
\par another word!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter the Ghost.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Now here's a King who knows how to 
\par rule!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost takes out a yardstick and starts 
\par measuring things.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Hey, this is "Hamlet," not "Measure 
\par For Measure!"
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Hamlet, what are you talking about?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'm talking to him!  Don't you see 
\par him?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Who?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par She can't see you!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost delights in the fact that the Queen 
\par can't see him.  He goes over to her and makes a 
\par horrible face right in front of her.  He's having 
\par a great time.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Yeah, you might as well enjoy 
\par yourself.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I'm not enjoying this one bit!
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost mimes an imitation of the Queen.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What a couple you two make!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par What couple?  There's only one of 
\par me.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Yeah, but you're shaped like a 
\par pear.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost suddenly notices the corpse of Polonius.  
\par The Ghost is shocked.  He turns to Hamlet for an 
\par explanation.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Yeah, I know.  Say, it's too bad he 
\par didn't put the poison in your ear.  
\par Then everything would be fine.  Are 
\par you sure Polonius didn't kill you?  
\par You're positive?
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods his head "yes."
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That's too bad.  I guess we owe him 
\par one.  Maybe I could get Ophelia to 
\par pour some poison in Horatio's ear.  
\par That would even things up.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost shakes his head "no," and mimes violence 
\par to Claudius.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Yeah, I guess I've still got to 
\par avenge your death.  But after this 
\par you owe me a favor.  Fair is fair.
\par 
\par 
\par The Ghost nods "yes" and exits.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Hamlet, what are you talking about?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par It's very simple, Mom.  All I want 
\par is for you to behave yourself.  Be 
\par a decent woman, the kind of mother 
\par a guy can be proud to take home to 
\par his girlfriend.  That's all I'm 
\par asking.  And stay away from 
\par Claudius!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par But Claudius and I are married.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Exactly!  He's a married man!  Do 
\par you know how that looks?  Do you?  
\par You and Claudius?  Do you have any 
\par idea how that looks?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par No, I do not!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, do you remember the two 
\par baboons we saw at the circus last 
\par year?  Look, Mom, I know you don't 
\par mean to be bad.  It's not your 
\par fault; you're just naturally 
\par rotten.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, Hamlet, the King say you gotta 
\par pack.  He's sending you to England 
\par with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Tell him I'd rather go to the 
\par French Riviera with Ophelia.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No, he says you've got to go to 
\par England.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, why not?  I might as well get 
\par out of Denmark until this business 
\par with Polonius blows over.
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio notices the corpse of Polonius for the 
\par first time.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, he doesn't look so good.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Don't worry about him.  It's just a 
\par slight case of death, that's all.  
\par There's a lot of it going around 
\par these days.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I hope it isn't catching.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Come on, help me drag this body out 
\par of here.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet and Horatio begin to drag out the body of 
\par Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Indeed this counselor is now most 
\par still, most secret, and most grave, 
\par who was in life a foolish prating 
\par knave.  Come, sir, to draw toward 
\par an end with you.  Good night, 
\par mother.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Hamlet and Horatio, dragging Polonius.  
\par Exit the Queen.
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par ACT IV
\par 
\par Scene I
\par 
\par 
\par Scene I takes place in a room in the castle.  
\par Enter the King and Queen.  The Queen is obviously 
\par very upset.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par There's matter in these sighs.  You 
\par must translate; 'tis fit we 
\par understand them.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par My good lord, Hamlet in his madness 
\par has slain Polonius.
\par 
\par         KING
\par He would have killed me, had I been 
\par there.  Where has he gone?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par To hide the body.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Rosencrantz!  Guildenstern!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern enter.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hamlet's killed Polonius.  Find 
\par him, and bring the body to the 
\par chapel.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par But your majesty, don't you think 
\par it would be better if some armed 
\par guards or ...
\par 
\par         KING
\par Find him and be quick about it!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Yes, your majesty.
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz turns to Guildenstern as they start to 
\par leave.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par This is all your fault!  If you 
\par hadn't played upon the pipe ...
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par (weeping)
\par But I didn't want to play the pipe!
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, nervously 
\par stumbling and bumping into each other.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Gertrude, we must discuss this 
\par matter further.  Oh, come away.  My 
\par soul is filled with discord and 
\par dismay.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II takes place in a passage in the castle.  
\par Enter Hamlet, who has just hidden the body of 
\par Polonius.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Safely stowed!
\par 
\par 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern call from off stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par (off stage)
\par Hamlet!
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par (off stage)
\par Lord Hamlet!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Who calls on Hamlet?  Oh, here they 
\par come.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, hesitantly.  
\par They are afraid of Hamlet.  Rosencrantz speaks to 
\par Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Now whatever you do, don't upset 
\par him!  You know how irritable he's 
\par been lately.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well?  What do you two want?
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Rosencrantz wants to ask you a 
\par question.
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Pardon us, your lordship, but we 
\par happened to overhear a certain 
\par rumor that a slight accident might 
\par have befallen Polonius, and we 
\par thought perhaps we might offer you 
\par our humble assistance to help you 
\par dispose of the ...  earthly 
\par remains.  If you have no 
\par objections, of course.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Sorry, boys, the body stays hidden.
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par Why don't you tell us where you hid 
\par it, so we can make sure we don't 
\par look for it there?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Bring me to the King.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene III
\par 
\par 
\par Scene III takes place in a room in the castle.  
\par Enter the King with ATTENDANTS.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par I have sent to seek him and to find 
\par the body.  How dangerous is it that 
\par this man goes loose!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Rosencrantz.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Well?  Did you find the body?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par No, your majesty.  He wouldn't tell 
\par us where it is.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Then where is Hamlet?
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Guildenstern!  Bring in Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Guildenstern and Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par At supper.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Supper?  Where?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Not where he eats, but where he is 
\par eaten.  By maggots.  Do you realize 
\par that we fatten chickens and cows to 
\par fatten ourselves, and we fatten 
\par ourselves to fatten maggots.  But 
\par who do the maggots fatten?  It's 
\par time the maggots learned that 
\par there's no free lunch.  So here's 
\par your bill for Polonius.  Oh, I'm 
\par sorry, I thought you were a maggot.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hamlet!!!   Where is Polonius?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par In heaven.  You can send a 
\par messenger to find him.  If he's not 
\par there, seek him in the other place 
\par yourself.  If you don't find him in 
\par a month, you should be able to nose 
\par him out as you go up the stairs 
\par into the lobby.
\par 
\par         KING
\par (to the Attendants)
\par Go seek him there.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par He will stay till you come.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt the Attendants.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Hamlet, I've arranged for you to go 
\par to England.  I want you to leave at 
\par once!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Anything you say.  To England!  
\par Farewell, Mother.
\par 
\par         KING
\par I'm your uncle, Hamlet, and your 
\par step-father.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, why not take another step and 
\par be a mother.  After all, father and 
\par mother are man and wife; man and 
\par wife are one flesh.  You are one 
\par flesh aren't you?  You look more 
\par like a flush.  A royal flush, if 
\par you like.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet turns to Rosencrantz and Guildenstern and 
\par gestures for them to follow him.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Come, for England!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Follow him!  And do not forget the 
\par commission I gave you!  Deliver it 
\par to the English King!
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Don't worry, your majesty.  We'll 
\par take care of everything.  Come, 
\par Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par My commission orders the present 
\par death of Hamlet.  The King of 
\par England owes me a favor.  Do it, 
\par England!  Until I know my son-in-
\par law is dead, I cannot rest easy.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit the King.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene IV
\par 
\par 
\par Scene IV takes place on a plain in Denmark.  Enter 
\par a CAPTAIN and several SOLDIERS from Fortinbras's 
\par army.  Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Good sir, whose powers are these?
\par 
\par         CAPTAIN
\par They are of Norway, sir, led by 
\par young Fortinbras.  We await 
\par permission from the Danish King for 
\par our army to pass through his lands 
\par on the way to Poland.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What's in Poland?
\par 
\par         CAPTAIN
\par The King of Norway would not permit 
\par young Fortinbras to attack Denmark, 
\par so we are attacking Poland instead.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What for?
\par 
\par         CAPTAIN
\par Young Fortinbras hopes to gain a 
\par little patch of ground, that has no 
\par worth for farming or any other 
\par value, save as an excuse for the 
\par shedding of blood.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I see.
\par 
\par         CAPTAIN
\par God be with you, sir.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt the Captain and soldiers.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Will you come, my lord?  We have 
\par almost reached the harbor from 
\par whence we sail to England.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I'll be with you in a minute.  I 
\par feel another soliloquy coming on.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Twenty thousand men march to their 
\par graves for a worthless plot of 
\par land.  Why can't I do anything that 
\par violent, or that funny?  Everyone 
\par thinks young Fortinbras is a great 
\par prince because he's going to kill 
\par all those people, and all I've 
\par killed is old Polonius.  Some 
\par leader I am!  Of course, Young 
\par Fortinbras has an advantage -- he's 
\par got an entire army to sacrifice for 
\par a useless cause.  Whose lives have 
\par I got to throw away?  
\par 
\par 
\par Re-enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par The boat awaits you, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Tell me, boys, how would you two 
\par like to serve your country?
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene V
\par 
\par 
\par Scene V takes place in a room in the castle at 
\par Elsinore.  Enter the King, the Queen and Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I will not see her.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par I don't blame you.  She's crazy.  
\par All she does is sing crazy songs 
\par all the time, and she's always 
\par telling everyone about her father's 
\par death, and how it's all your fault.
\par 
\par         KING
\par What?  You mean she is sewing 
\par discord among the people?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What cord?
\par 
\par         KING
\par Discord!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What cord?
\par 
\par         KING
\par Discord!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You keep saying, "dis cord," but I 
\par don't see any cord.
\par 
\par         KING
\par I said she sews discord.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par No, she doesn't sew any cords, but 
\par she plays some chords when she 
\par sings her crazy songs.  She keeps 
\par acting crazy all the time.  I've 
\par never seen anyone act so crazy.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Let her come in.  We had better 
\par find out if she is stirring up 
\par trouble among the rabble.
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio exits, and comes back with Ophelia, who 
\par seems to be doing an imitation of Hamlet, loping 
\par across the stage with a cigar in her mouth.  She 
\par carries a lute, or a banjo, or some other stringed 
\par instrument.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Where's the beauteous Queen of 
\par Denmark?  There, if that doesn't 
\par convince you I'm crazy, nothing 
\par will!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Ophelia!
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Oh, feel - yaself!  What kind of a 
\par name is Ophelia, anyway??  Is it 
\par any wonder the boys all think I'm 
\par easy?  Oh well, easy come, easy go.
\par 
\par 
\par She starts to strum on the musical instrument she 
\par carries.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par My first number is, "He Is Dead And 
\par Gone."
\par 
\par 
\par She sings:
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par He is dead and gone, lady,
\par He is dead and gone.
\par We did not want him dead and here,
\par So he is dead and gone.
\par 
\par         KING
\par She is distracted by her father's 
\par death.
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Let's not talk about that!  My 
\par second number is called "Saint 
\par Valentine's Day."
\par 
\par 
\par She sings:
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Tomorrow is Saint Valentine's Day,
\par And as the sun did shine,
\par I came, a maid, at your window,
\par To be your valentine.
\par 
\par Then up he rose, and donned his 
\par clothes,
\par And opened wide the door,
\par Let in the maid, and made the maid,
\par So she was a maiden no more.
\par 
\par By gosh, and by Saint Charity,
\par Alack, and cry for shame!
\par Young men will do it, if they can 
\par do it.
\par By cock, they are to blame!
\par 
\par Quoth she, "Before you tumbled me,
\par You promised me to wed."
\par He answers:
\par "So would I have done, by yonder 
\par sun,
\par If thou hadst not come to my bed."
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Oh, poor Ophelia.
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par I'm not finished yet!
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia continues her song:
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Quoth she, "That is hypocrisy,
\par For you begged me into your bed!
\par So marry me quick, or I'll cut off 
\par thy wick-
\par Ed tongue!"   And so they were wed!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Say, does she remind you of the man 
\par who comes to fix the sink?
\par 
\par         KING
\par How long has she been like this?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Tell me, do you think it's all 
\par right for a girl to marry a guy 
\par who's killed her father, or is that 
\par considered a breach of social 
\par etiquette?   The guy who did it is 
\par a real son of a breach.  I don't 
\par think my brother is going to like 
\par this.  Maybe you should do 
\par something to make it up to him, 
\par like name him as your heir.  Heir 
\par today, and gone tomorrow!
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Ophelia.  The King orders Horatio to follow 
\par her.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Guard her closely!  Keep a careful 
\par watch, I pray you.  Her grief has 
\par driven her mad.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Don't worry.  I'll guard her.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par This is all Hamlet's fault!  First 
\par he went mad and spurned her love; 
\par then he killed her father; and now 
\par we have had to bury Polonius 
\par quietly and without ceremony.  
\par Worst of all, I have heard that 
\par Laertes has secretly returned from 
\par France, and the people have fed him 
\par vicious rumors about his father's 
\par death! 
\par 
\par 
\par Loud noises come from off stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par What is this noise?
\par 
\par 
\par Enter a MESSENGER.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par What's the matter?
\par 
\par         MESSENGER
\par Laertes has returned.  The people 
\par have welcomed him and they cry that 
\par they choose him for their king!  I 
\par fear they will break down the 
\par doors!
\par 
\par 
\par A crash of doors being broken open is heard off 
\par stage.  Enter Laertes.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par What has happened to my father?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Calm down, good Laertes!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par First tell me what has happened to 
\par my father!  If he was murdered, I 
\par must be revenged!  That is my duty 
\par as his son!
\par 
\par         KING
\par Believe me, Laertes, I am guiltless 
\par of thy father's death, and I grieve 
\par for him.  When I tell you the whole 
\par story, you will see that you have 
\par no cause to blame me.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Ophelia, still doing a mad impersonation of 
\par Hamlet.  This time, in addition to her musical 
\par instrument, she carries several large bunches of 
\par flowers.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Ophelia!!!   Have you gone mad?
\par 
\par 
\par Ophelia sings.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par And will he not come again?
\par And will he not come again?
\par They laid him deep in his grave,
\par 'Cause his flesh was decayed,
\par So he'd better not come again!
\par 
\par 
\par She hits the King and Queen in their faces with 
\par flowers.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Here, have some flowers!  You too!  
\par Well, aren't you going to put them 
\par in water?  Do you want them to rot, 
\par like my father?  Go put them in 
\par water!
\par 
\par 
\par The King and Queen exit with their flowers.  
\par Ophelia drops her feigned madness, and speaks 
\par quickly to her startled brother.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Hush!  I'm only feigning madness, 
\par and while I pretend, I stir up the 
\par angry populace, and prepare your 
\par path to the throne of Denmark!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par But, Hamlet. . .
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par Hamlet doesn't stand a chance 
\par anymore!  It would surprise me if 
\par Claudius hasn't already arranged 
\par for his death.  My only chance for 
\par power is to have you crowned King.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par What are you going to do?
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par I have arranged with my handmaidens 
\par to fake my own death.  I will 
\par appear to have drowned, and the 
\par people will be so angered, and 
\par Claudius will feel so guilty, he 
\par must name you as heir to the 
\par throne.  Once that is done, and 
\par they lay me in the ground for 
\par burial, you must leap into my grave 
\par and pray for me.  I will revive as 
\par if it were by a miracle.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par It may work!
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par It is bound to work, if you play 
\par your part.  Just make certain you 
\par claim my body as soon as you hear 
\par that I have drowned, and don't let 
\par anyone examine me too closely.
\par 
\par 
\par The King re-enters, and Ophelia immediately goes 
\par back into her act of madness.
\par 
\par 
\par         OPHELIA
\par I thought I'd marry Hamlet and be a 
\par Queen someday, but then my father 
\par died and he left me a poor orphaned 
\par waif.  I was hoping he'd leave me 
\par some money.  Oh well, where's 
\par there's a will, there's a waif.  
\par Time for me to waif good-bye.  Waif 
\par not, want not!  Good night!  Good 
\par night!  Good-bye.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Ophelia.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Laertes, you must come with me, and 
\par I will explain to you everything 
\par about your father's death, and when 
\par I am done you will understand it 
\par was no fault of mine.  I pray you, 
\par come with me.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Scene VI
\par 
\par 
\par Scene VI takes place in another room in the 
\par castle.  Enter Horatio.  A SAILOR follows him in.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What?
\par 
\par 
\par The SAILOR hands a letter to Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         SAILOR
\par Good Horatio, I have a letter for 
\par you from Prince Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio takes the letter, and studies it intently 
\par without saying a word.  Then he hands it back to 
\par the sailor.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What's it say?
\par 
\par         SAILOR
\par Can't you read?  I thought you were 
\par a great scholar at the university 
\par at Wittenberg.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure, at Wittenberg, but this is 
\par Denmark!
\par 
\par         SAILOR
\par All right, the letter says, " Dear 
\par Horatio,  It's great to be in 
\par England.  Unfortunately, I'm in 
\par Denmark.  Two days out at sea, we 
\par were savagely attacked by a band of 
\par pirates, freebooters, and a dozen 
\par Shakespearean scholars.  The 
\par fighting was fierce, and we were 
\par badly outnumbered, so I drew my 
\par sword and joined the other side.  
\par Before I knew it, the boats had 
\par split up again, and I was stuck 
\par with the scholars.  After making me 
\par promise never to perform "King 
\par Lear," they let me off on the shore 
\par of Denmark.  Please have this 
\par sailor bring you to me.  I have 
\par much to tell you, including the 
\par fates of Rosencrantz and 
\par Guildenstern and King Lear.  No, 
\par just kidding.  Nothing about King 
\par Lear.  Your friend,   Hamlet."
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par OK, take me to Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Scene VII
\par 
\par 
\par Scene VII takes place in another room in the 
\par castle.  Enter the King and Laertes.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Now must your conscience my 
\par acquaintance seal, and you must put 
\par me in your heart as friend.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par But why haven't you done anything 
\par to Hamlet?
\par 
\par         KING
\par I have, Laertes, but craftily, so 
\par that I will not be blamed for his 
\par death by the Queen, or by the 
\par Danish people, who for some reason 
\par unknown to me, like the Prince.  
\par But set your mind to rest; even as 
\par we speak, Hamlet has surely me his 
\par death, executed by the King of 
\par England.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter a MESSENGER.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par How now?  What news?
\par 
\par         MESSENGER
\par A sailor has brought a letter to 
\par you from Hamlet.
\par 
\par         KING
\par What????
\par 
\par 
\par The King takes the letter from the Messenger and 
\par reads it.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par He's back in Denmark, I know not 
\par how!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Then is he to go unpunished, and 
\par someday follow you to the throne?
\par 
\par         KING
\par Laertes, how would you like to 
\par follow me?  Help me to be rid of 
\par Hamlet, and the succession is 
\par thine.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Say on, good King.
\par 
\par         KING
\par We must plan his death carefully.  
\par I know that Hamlet is most jealous 
\par of your skill as a swordsman.  You 
\par shall have a sporting match with 
\par him.  We will arrange that Hamlet's 
\par sword shall be blunted, as befits a 
\par friendly duel, but your sword shall 
\par be unbated so that you may, as if 
\par it were by accident, run him 
\par through.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par I'll do it.  And what is more, to 
\par make certain his death, I'll anoint 
\par my sword with a deadly poison, so 
\par that even if I do but scratch him, 
\par he must die.
\par  
\par         KING
\par And I'll prepare a chalice of 
\par poisoned wine for him to drink, so 
\par that if he should escape your 
\par envenomed blade, our purpose will 
\par hold.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par And should that fail, I will 
\par arrange a chandelier to fall upon 
\par him!
\par 
\par         KING
\par And I will build a trap door above 
\par a pit of hungry crocodiles so 
\par that...  No, on second thought, 
\par let's just stick with the envenomed 
\par sword and the poisoned wine.  That 
\par should be sufficient to ensure his 
\par death.  There's no point in 
\par overdoing it.
\par 
\par 
\par They shake hands.  Enter the Queen.  She is very 
\par upset.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par How now, sweet Queen!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Your sister's drowned, Laertes!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Drowned!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par There is a willow which grows 
\par beside a brook.  Ophelia went there 
\par to pick flowers.  She was holding 
\par onto a branch which broke, and sent 
\par her tumbling into the brook.  In 
\par her madness she did not even try to 
\par save herself, but sang snatches of 
\par old tunes as she sank beneath the 
\par surface of the brook.  When her 
\par handmaidens pulled her out, they 
\par said she was dead.
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes pretends to be overcome with grief.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Drowned.
\par 
\par 
\par Abruptly, Laertes ends his act and says good-bye 
\par to the King.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Adieu, my lord.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Laertes.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Let's follow, Gertrude!  How much I 
\par had to do to calm his rage!  Now 
\par fear I this will give it start 
\par again; therefore let's follow.
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par ***********************************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par Act V
\par 
\par Scene I
\par 
\par 
\par Scene I takes place in a cemetery in a churchyard 
\par in Elsinore.  There is a deep grave which is 
\par almost completed.  Enter a GRAVEDIGGER who starts 
\par to finish digging the grave.  Enter Hamlet and 
\par Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I will speak to this fellow.  Whose 
\par grave's this, sirrah?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par Mine, sir.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I think it be thine indeed, for 
\par thou liest in it.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet turns and speaks to the audience.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, what do you want from a joke 
\par that's over 350 years old?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par I don't lie.  I have dug the grave, 
\par and so therefore it is mine.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What man do you dig it for?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par For no man, sir.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What woman then?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par For none neither.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Then who is to be buried in it?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par One that was a woman, sir; but rest 
\par her soul, she's dead.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I think you'd better dig some 
\par graves for these jokes.  How long 
\par have you been a gravedigger?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par I started this occupation the day 
\par our late King Hamlet overcame old 
\par Fortinbras.  That was the day 
\par Prince Hamlet was born.
\par 
\par 
\par The Gravedigger continues digging the grave.  He 
\par comes upon a skull, and tosses it out of the 
\par grave.
\par 
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par This graveyard's getting crowded.  
\par This skull has been in the earth a 
\par long time.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Whose was it?
\par 
\par         GRAVEDIGGER
\par That was Yorick's skull, the King's 
\par jester.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet picks up the skull and looks at it sadly.  
\par He speaks somberly.  In fact, this is the only 
\par time in the entire play when Hamlet is completely 
\par and genuinely serious.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Alas, poor Yorick!  I knew him, 
\par Horatio.  A funny little man with a 
\par derby hat and a bamboo cane.  He 
\par wore a jacket that was too small 
\par and shoes that were too large.  He 
\par used to walk a splayfooted walk, 
\par all the while twirling his cane.  
\par And he had a tiny little mustache 
\par which he used to twitch back and 
\par forth when he was upset.  He was a 
\par funny little man.  And the last 
\par time I saw him, he was a pink-
\par faced, white-haired old man who 
\par kept patting my hand and saying, 
\par "Keep warm.  Keep warm."  It 
\par doesn't seem fair that the 
\par comedians should have to die, just 
\par like everyone else.
\par 
\par 
\par Suddenly Hamlet is no longer serious.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh well.
\par 
\par 
\par He casually tosses the skull over his shoulder and 
\par kicks it away (just as Yorick would have done).  
\par Hamlet hears people approaching from off stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par But soft!  Here comes the King, the 
\par Queen, and the courtiers.  Let's 
\par hide and see what's going on.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet and Horatio hide behind some gravestones.  
\par Enter the King, Queen, Laertes and COURTIERS.  
\par They carry the body of Ophelia wrapped in a 
\par shroud.  The body remains covered by the shroud 
\par throughout the entire scene, so we never actually 
\par see the body of Ophelia.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Lay my sister's body in the earth, 
\par and from her fair and unpolluted 
\par flesh may violets spring!
\par 
\par 
\par The body of Ophelia is gently placed in the grave.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What?  Is that Ophelia?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par Farewell, Ophelia.  I had hoped you 
\par would have been my Hamlet's bride.  
\par I thought to have decked your 
\par bridal bed with flowers, instead of 
\par thy grave.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Speak not the hated name of Hamlet!  
\par His wicked deed has caused her 
\par death!
\par 
\par 
\par The Gravedigger prepares to shovel dirt into the 
\par grave.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Wait!  Hold off the earth awhile, 
\par till I have caught her once more in 
\par my arms.
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes climbs down into the grave.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Oh heaven, I would give up my 
\par newly-granted claim of succession 
\par to the throne, to be buried with 
\par her now.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet springs up from his hiding place.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Hey!  Get out of that grave!  If 
\par anyone has a right to give up the 
\par throne to be buried with her, it is 
\par I, Hamlet the Dane!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet leaps into the grave.  There is a horrible 
\par crunching sound as he lands, and perhaps a moan 
\par from Ophelia.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Get off my sister!  You just jumped 
\par onto my sister!
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes pushes Hamlet off of the body of Ophelia.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Ophelia!
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes grabs the body.  Hamlet tries to pull it 
\par away, banging the body against the sides of the 
\par grave.  There are faint muffled cries coming from 
\par the shroud, but no one notices them.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Give her back!
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes and Hamlet have a vicious tug-of-war with 
\par the body.  Suddenly, Hamlet lets go, and the body 
\par slams into the side of the grave with a sickening 
\par thud.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par OK!  OK, I can tell when I'm not 
\par welcome.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet climbs out of the grave and exits.  Laertes 
\par peeks inside the shroud and shudders.  He angrily 
\par turns to the gravedigger.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par You might as well go ahead and bury 
\par her now!  She's dead.
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes exits sadly.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Gertrude, we must set some watch 
\par over your son!
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II
\par 
\par 
\par Scene II takes place in a hall in the castle.  
\par Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par So much for this.  You do remember 
\par all the circumstance?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Sure.  Your father, he's a ghost, 
\par so you go crazy.  Then you put on a 
\par play, but your uncle doesn't like 
\par it, so you kill Polonius.  His 
\par daughter Ophelia wants to marry 
\par you, but you go to England with 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, so 
\par she drowns herself.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Is that what's been happening?  I 
\par certainly am lucky to have you 
\par around to explain these things to 
\par me.  Anyway, let me tell you what 
\par happened to me on the voyage to 
\par England.  The first night on the 
\par ship I couldn't sleep, so I decided 
\par to get something to read.  What I 
\par decided to get was the commission 
\par which Claudius had given to 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  I 
\par snuck into their cabin and took the 
\par commission.  It wasn't very 
\par interesting until I got to the part 
\par that said that for the good of 
\par England and of Denmark, and for the 
\par peace that stands between them, 
\par without delay, Prince Hamlet's head 
\par should be cut off!!!
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Was that the most interesting part?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I thought so.  Didn't you think it 
\par was interesting?
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio is undecided.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Well ...
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I know the writing was a little 
\par flat, so I decided to make a few 
\par revisions.  I rewrote the 
\par commission so that it said that for 
\par the good of England and of Denmark, 
\par and for the peace that stands 
\par between them, without delay, Hamlet 
\par should be given lots of money and 
\par beautiful naked women.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet smiles proudly at Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Don't you think that's better?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Why didn't you say Horatio should 
\par get the money and women?  Then 
\par you'd have something!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You mean you'd have something!  I 
\par put the commission back in 
\par Rosencrantz's and Guildenstern's 
\par cabin.  Unfortunately, the next day 
\par we were attacked by pirates, and I 
\par never got to England.  Oh, I almost 
\par forgot, ...  I did make one other 
\par small change in the commission, 
\par it's hardly worth mentioning, 
\par really.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par What was that?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I told the English King to have 
\par Rosencrantz and Guildenstern put to 
\par death.
\par 
\par 
\par Horatio looks accusingly at Hamlet, who looks a 
\par little embarrassed.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Well, they deserved it, spying on 
\par me for Claudius!  Anyway, this kind 
\par of thing suits them.  I can just 
\par imagine their reaction when they 
\par find out what the commission says.  
\par I can see them in my mind's eye....
\par 
\par 
\par Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern with the 
\par English EXECUTIONER.
\par 
\par 
\par         ROSENCRANTZ
\par Well, Guildenstern, here's another 
\par fine mess you've gotten me into.
\par 
\par 
\par Guildenstern starts weeping.  He tries to speak 
\par through his tears.
\par 
\par 
\par         GUILDENSTERN
\par But I didn't do anything!  I....
\par 
\par 
\par The English Executioner leads them off stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, who's that coming?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, that's just Osric, the 
\par courtier.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter OSRIC, a young courtier.
\par 
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par Your lordship is welcome back to 
\par Denmark.  I bring word from the 
\par King.  He proposes to place a wager 
\par on a friendly, sporting duel 
\par between yourself and young Laertes.  
\par The King shall wager that in a 
\par dozen passes of the sword, Laertes 
\par shall not exceed you by three hits.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, that's good!  That sounds like 
\par fun.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You think so?  All right, tell the 
\par King I'll do it, any time he's 
\par ready.
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par I shall tell him, my lord.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Osric.  Horatio also exits, and Hamlet calls 
\par out after him.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Hey, where are you going?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par To place a bet against you.
\par 
\par 
\par Exit Horatio.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par It's nice to have the confidence of 
\par your friends.  There's something 
\par that bothers me about this duel.  
\par My stepfather, who's already tried 
\par to kill me once, has set up a 
\par fencing match with Laertes, who 
\par also hates me.  But Horatio seems 
\par to think the match is a good idea, 
\par which means I must be crazy to 
\par agree to it!  But what will come 
\par will come.  The readiness is all.  
\par And I don't think I'm ready yet!!!
\par 
\par 
\par Enter the King, Queen, Laertes, Osric and various 
\par other Courtiers and Attendants.  A moment later 
\par Horatio enters, having placed his bet.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Come, Hamlet, come and take this 
\par hand from me.
\par 
\par 
\par The King gives Laertes' hand to Hamlet.  They 
\par shake hands.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Laertes, I want you to know that 
\par I'm sorry I killed your father and 
\par caused the death of your sister, 
\par but I'll forgive and forget if you 
\par will.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par (coldly)
\par I am satisfied.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Then let's play the match.  Give us 
\par the foils.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Give them the foils, young Osric.
\par 
\par 
\par Osric brings Hamlet and Laertes two identical, 
\par bated fencing foils.  Laertes and Hamlet each take 
\par one.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par This is too heavy for me.  Let me 
\par see another.
\par 
\par 
\par Osric takes Laertes' foil, and goes off stage to 
\par get another one.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par This one seems OK.
\par 
\par 
\par Osric re-enters with a huge unbated sword for 
\par Laertes.  It is much larger than Hamlet's sword.  
\par Laertes takes the giant, deadly sword and takes a 
\par practice lunge.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Yes, that's better.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Say, are these weapons all of the 
\par same length?
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par Of course, my lord.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I just wanted to make sure mine 
\par wasn't longer.  I'd hate to have an 
\par unfair advantage.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Very well.  Let the match begin!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet and Laertes fence.  Hamlet is fairly fast 
\par and agile, and his footwork is unique.  He manages 
\par to avoid being hit by Laertes' sword.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You know, Laertes, you should play 
\par Horatio sometime.  He's an expert 
\par on fencing.  He'll fence anything 
\par he can get his hands on.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet manages to hit Laertes.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par One!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par No.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Judgment?
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par A hit, a very palpable hit.
\par 
\par 
\par The King offers Hamlet the poisoned chalice of 
\par wine.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par Congratulations, Hamlet.  Here is a 
\par chalice of wine for your 
\par refreshment.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Nice try, Claudius, but it won't 
\par work.
\par 
\par         KING
\par What do you mean, Hamlet?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I know what you're up to, trying to 
\par get me drunk!  I'm staying sober 
\par for this match!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet and Laertes fence.  Hamlet scores another 
\par hit.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Another hit!  What say you?
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par A touch, a touch, I do confess it.
\par 
\par 
\par The Queen takes the poisoned chalice.
\par 
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I drink to thy good fortune, 
\par Hamlet.
\par 
\par         KING
\par Gertrude, do not drink!
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I will, my lord; I pray you pardon 
\par me.
\par 
\par 
\par She drinks.  The King speaks quietly to himself.
\par 
\par 
\par         KING
\par It is the poisoned cup; it is too 
\par late.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Come, Laertes.
\par 
\par 
\par They fence for a while, but no one is hit.  They 
\par pause.
\par 
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par Nothing ether way.
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Have at you now!
\par 
\par 
\par Suddenly, Laertes stabs at Hamlet before the match 
\par has started again.  Hamlet is scratched by the 
\par envenomed sword.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par That was an unthrustworthy attack!
\par 
\par 
\par They start to fence again in earnest.  Laertes 
\par drops his sword.  Hamlet exchanges swords with 
\par him.  Hamlet wounds Laertes.  Suddenly, the Queen 
\par falls.
\par 
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par Look to the Queen!
\par 
\par         KING
\par She swoons to see them bleed.
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par No, no, the drink, the drink, -- 
\par Oh, my dear Hamlet, -- the drink, 
\par the drink --
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet picks up the chalice and offers it to her.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par You want a drink?
\par 
\par         QUEEN
\par I am poisoned!
\par 
\par 
\par She dies.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par What???
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes falls.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Hamlet, thou art slain.
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Don't be ridiculous!  This is a 
\par comedy!
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par Thou art slain!  The treacherous 
\par instrument is in thy hand, unbated 
\par and envenomed.  Thy mother's 
\par poisoned.  The King, the King's to 
\par blame!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet is furious.  He turns to face Claudius.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Thou incestuous, murderous, damned 
\par Dane, I'll kill you now!!!
\par 
\par 
\par However, before Hamlet can act, he starts thinking 
\par again.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par But which shall I use, the 
\par envenomed sword or the poisoned 
\par drink?  The sword would be more 
\par bloody and more certain, but it 
\par would seem too like an honorable 
\par soldier's death.  The poison is a 
\par more ignominious end, but there is 
\par little left, and how can I be sure 
\par he'd drink it down.  On the other 
\par hand, maybe I shouldn't kill him at 
\par all, now that his treachery is 
\par known to all, but let him live on 
\par in disgrace, until the people do 
\par ....
\par 
\par 
\par Everyone who is still alive yells at Hamlet.
\par 
\par 
\par         ALL
\par Kill him already!  Make up your 
\par mind and kill him!!!
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par Oh, what the hell!
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet stabs Claudius with the envenomed sword, 
\par and at the same time pours the poisoned drink down 
\par his throat.  Claudius dies.
\par 
\par 
\par         LAERTES
\par He is justly served.  Exchange 
\par forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet!  
\par I blame you not for mine and my 
\par father's death.  Blame me not for 
\par thine!
\par 
\par 
\par Laertes dies.  Hamlet collapses, and Horatio goes 
\par to him.
\par 
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I am dying, Horatio.  I'd always 
\par hoped the ending would be funnier 
\par than this.
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par You want me to tell some jokes?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par I didn't think I'd die, as long as 
\par I kept this a comedy.  Maybe 
\par killing Rosencrantz and 
\par Guildenstern wasn't such a funny 
\par idea after all.  Horatio, how is it 
\par that you're the only major 
\par character to survive?  The only one 
\par in the entire play?
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par It's funny you should ask.  I 
\par didn't think I was gonna live.  In 
\par fact, I was so sure I was gonna 
\par die, I bet this guy named Will 
\par Shakespeare 200 kroner that I'd die 
\par before the play was over, and what 
\par do you think happens?  I lose the 
\par bet!  Just my luck, huh?
\par 
\par         HAMLET
\par The rest is silence.
\par 
\par 
\par Hamlet dies.  The sound of military drums comes 
\par from off stage.
\par 
\par 
\par         HORATIO
\par Hey, what's that noise?
\par 
\par 
\par Osric runs off stage to find out.  He returns.
\par 
\par 
\par         OSRIC
\par Young Fortinbras, with conquest 
\par comes from Poland.
\par 
\par 
\par Enter YOUNG FORTINBRAS and some of his soldiers.  
\par Young Fortinbras has a ski-slope shaped nose, and 
\par speaks with rapid-fire delivery.
\par 
\par 
\par         FORTINBRAS
\par Hi, this is Young "Happy To Be Back In Denmark" 
\par Fortinbras, and I gotta tell you, I thought I'd 
\par seen bloodshed in Poland, but this is ridiculous.  
\par I was going to give the Danish court a twenty-one 
\par gun salute, but it looks like someone beat me to 
\par it.  You know, a funny thing happened on the way 
\par to the castle.  I ran into the English Ambassador, 
\par and he told me that Rosencrantz and Guildenstern 
\par are dead.  I said, "Who isn't?"  But I love 
\par Elsinore, it's gotta be the only place on Earth
\par where they built a moat to protect the people 
\par outside from the violence inside the castle.  But 
\par seriously, folks, such a sight as this becomes the 
\par field, but here shows much amiss.  Go bid the 
\par soldiers shoot.  
\par 
\par 
\par Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after which a 
\par peal of ordinance is shot off.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par **************************************************
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par THE END
\par 
\par 
\par copyright 1995 by Richard Nathan
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par You can sent the author e-mail inquiries at:
\par 
\par Richard-Nathan@worldnet.att.net.
\par 
\par or at:  SWSS18A@prodigy.com
\par 
\par }
 